# High-level utils

Here is 2 really useful high-level utilities that you can use in your projects.

## useItemsPaginated()

A high-level composable to paginate collections of TON contracts.

### Parameters

- **params**: The parameters of pagination.
  - **pageLength**: Maximum number of items per iteration. (default: 3)
  - **getTotalItems**: A function that returns the total number of items as bigint.
  - **getItemContract**: A function that returns a contract by its sequence number.
  - **beforeNextPage**: A function that will be called before fetching the next page.

### Returns

Synchronous pagination state and methods.

- **isLastPage**: Whether the current page is the last one.
- **isFetching**: Whether the next page is loading.
- **items**: All items fetched so far.
- **nextPage**: Fetches the next page.
- **reset**: Resets the pagination state.

### Example

```typescript
import { ref } from 'vue'
import { useItemsPaginated } from '@d0rich/vueton'
import { CollectionContract, ItemContract } from 'path/to/contracts'

const { isLastPage, isFetching, items, nextPage, reset } = useItemsPaginated({
  pageLength: 5,
  getTotalItems: async () => {
    return await collectionContract.getNextItemIndex()
  },
  getItemContract: async (seqNum) => {
    return ItemContract.fromAddress(await collectionContract.getItemByIndex(seqNum))
  },
  beforeNextPage: async () => {
    console.log('Fetching next page...')
  }
})

// Fetch the first page
nextPage()
```

## useSendMessage()

A high-level composable to send messages in TON Blockchain.

### Parameters

- **props**: Parameters of the message sending.
  - **sendMessageFn**: A function to send a message.
  - **preSendValidation**: A function to validate if the message can be sent before actually doing it.
  - **hooks**: Hooks to be run on different stages of the message sending.
    - **onStart**: A hook to be run before the message is sent.
    - **onSuccess**: A hook to be run after the message is successfully sent. This hook will not be called if the message sending fails.
    - **onFail**: A hook to be run after the message sending fails.

### Returns

Synchronous result of the message sending.

- **sendMessage**: Sends a message.
- **status**: The current status of the message sending.
- **success**: Whether the message was successfully sent.
- **fail**: Whether the message sending failed.
- **isFetching**: Whether the message sending is in progress.
- **reset**: Resets the message sending state.

### Example

```typescript
import { useSendMessage } from '@d0rich/vueton'

const { sendMessage, status, success, fail, isFetching, reset } = useSendMessage({
  sendMessageFn: async ({ userAddress }) => {
    sendTransaction({
      // Your transaction parameters
    })
  },
  hooks: {
    onStart: () => {
      console.log('Message sending started')
    },
    onSuccess: () => {
      console.log('Message sent successfully')
    },
    onFail: () => {
      console.log('Message sending failed')
    }
  }
})

// Send a message
sendMessage()
```